feat: prefer using x-forwarded-for as clientAddress (#11101)
withastro/astro: .changeset/healthy-planets-dream.md

---
"astro": major
---

> prefer using x-forwarded-for as clientAddress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The adapter now uses **first** the header `x-forwarded-for` for computing `clientAddress`.
```

> The adapter now uses **first** the header `x-forwarded-for` for computing `clientAddress`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates Astro's code for adapters to use the header `x-forwarded-for` to initialize the `clientAddress`.

To take advantage of the new change, integration authors must upgrade the version of Astro in their adapter `peerDependencies` to `4.9.0`.
```
